Methods and Encapsulation.

Working with Methods and Encapsulation

Create methods with arguments and return values; including
"overloaded" methods

Apply the static keyword to methods and fields

Create and overload constructors; include impact on default
constructors

Apply access modifiers

Apply encapsulation principles to a class

Determine the effect upon object references and primitive
values when they are passed into methods that change the
values

Working with Selected classes from the Java API

Write a simple Lambda expression that consumes a Lambda
Predicate expression

	Applying Access Modifiers

private : Only accessible within the same class
default (package private) access: private and other classes in the same package
protected : default access (same package) and child classes
public : protected and classes in the other packages


Static vs. Instance



Static Variables

Other static variables are meant to never change during the program. This type of vari-
able is known as a constant. It uses the final modifi er to ensure the variable never changes.
static final constants use a different naming convention than other variables. They use
all uppercase letters with underscores between “words.” For example:
public class Initializers {
private static final int NUM_BUCKETS = 45;
public static void main(String[] args) {
NUM_BUCKETS = 5; // DOES NOT COMPILE
} }
The compiler will make sure that you do not accidentally try to update a fi nal variable.
This can get interesting. Do you think the following compiles?
private static final ArrayList<String> values = new ArrayList<>();
public static void main(String[] args) {
values.add("changed");
}
It actually does compile. values is a reference variable. We are allowed to call methods
on reference variables. All the compiler can do is check that we don’t try to reassign the
final values to point to a different object.


Remember that static imports are
only for importing static members.

Regular imports are for importing a class.

There’s only one more scenario with static imports. In Chapter 1, you learned that
importing two classes with the same name gives a compiler error. This is true of static
imports as well. The compiler will complain if you try to explicitly do a static import of
two methods with the same name or two static variables with the same name. For example:
import static statics.A.TYPE;
import static statics.B.TYPE;
// DOES NOT COMPILE
Luckily when this happens, we can just refer to the static members via their classname in
the code instead of trying to use a static import.